README.md, before:

# Segmenter: Transformer for Semantic Segmentation


[Segmenter: Transformer for Semantic Segmentation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.05633)


## Model Zoo
Release models with a Vision Transformer backbone initialized from the [improved ViT](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.10270) models.

### ADE20K

Segmenter models with ViT backbone:
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>mIoU (SS/MS)</th>
    <th># params</th>
    <th>Resolution</th>
    <th>FPS</th>
    <th colspan="3">Download</th>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-T-Mask/16</td>
    <td>38.1 / 38.8</td>
    <td>7M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>52.4</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_tiny_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_tiny_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_tiny_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-S-Mask/16</td>
    <td>45.3 / 46.9</td>
    <td>27M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>34.8</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_small_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_small_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_small_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-B-Mask/16</td>
    <td>48.5 / 50.0</td>
    <td>106M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>24.1</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-B/8</td>
    <td>49.5 / 50.5</td>
    <td>89M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>4.2</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_patch8/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_patch8/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_patch8/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-L-Mask/16</td>
    <td>51.8 / 53.6</td>
    <td>334M</td>
    <td>640x640</td>
    <td>-</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_large_mask_640/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_large_mask_640/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_large_mask_640/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

Segmenter models with DeiT backbone:
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>mIoU (SS/MS)</th>
    <th># params</th>
    <th>Resolution</th>
    <th>FPS</th>
    <th colspan="3">Download</th>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-B<span>&#8224;</span>/16</td>
    <td>47.1 / 48.1</td>
    <td>87M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>27.3</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_linear/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_linear/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_linear/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-B<span>&#8224;</span>-Mask/16</td>
    <td>48.7 / 50.1</td>
    <td>106M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>24.1</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>

  </tr>
</table>

### Pascal Context
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>mIoU (SS/MS)</th>
    <th># params</th>
    <th>Resolution</th>
    <th>FPS</th>
    <th colspan="3">Download</th>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-L-Mask/16</td>
    <td>58.1 / 59.0</td>
    <td>334M</td>
    <td>480x480</td>
    <td>-</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/pascal_context/seg_large_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/pascal_context/seg_large_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/pascal_context/seg_large_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Cityscapes
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>mIoU (SS/MS)</th>
    <th># params</th>
    <th>Resolution</th>
    <th>FPS</th>
    <th colspan="3">Download</th>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-L-Mask/16</td>
    <td>79.1 / 81.3</td>
    <td>322M</td>
    <td>768x768</td>
    <td>-</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/cityscapes/seg_large_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/cityscapes/seg_large_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/cityscapes/seg_large_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Train and test

Train `Seg-T-Mask/16` on ADE20K on a single GPU:
```python
python train.py --dataset ade20k --backbone vit_tiny_patch16_384 --decoder mask_transformer --wandb

python train.py --dataset streethazards --backbone vit_tiny_patch16_384 --decoder mask_transformer --wandb
```

Test `Seg-T-Mask/16` on StreetHazards on a single GPU:
```python
python test.py --dataset ade20k --model_path <log_folder> --singlescale --save-image

python test.py --dataset streethazards --model_path <log_folder> --singlescale --save-image

### --save-image is optional if you want to visualize test image, groundtruth, and prediction 
### --model_path only require the leaf folder name on logs dir.
### Example:
python.test.py --dataset streethazards --model_path streethazards_20030329@190011 --singlescale --save-images
```


## Logs
Simply install WandB `pip install wandb`, login into your WandB account, and turn the flag: `--wandb` in `train.py`


## BibTex

```
@article{strudel2021,
  title={Segmenter: Transformer for Semantic Segmentation},
  author={Strudel, Robin and Garcia, Ricardo and Laptev, Ivan and Schmid, Cordelia},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.05633},
  year={2021}
}
```


## Acknowledgements

The Vision Transformer code is based on [timm](https://github.com/rwightman/pytorch-image-models) library and the semantic segmentation training and evaluation pipeline 
is using [mmsegmentation](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation).

Code modified by [quanghuy0497](https://github.com/quanghuy0497)

Commit message:

Combine train and test scripts under 1 unified main.py. Update README

README.md, after:

# Segmenter: Transformer for Semantic Segmentation


[Segmenter: Transformer for Semantic Segmentation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.05633)


## Model Zoo
Release models with a Vision Transformer backbone initialized from the [improved ViT](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.10270) models.

### ADE20K

Segmenter models with ViT backbone:
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>mIoU (SS/MS)</th>
    <th># params</th>
    <th>Resolution</th>
    <th>FPS</th>
    <th colspan="3">Download</th>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-T-Mask/16</td>
    <td>38.1 / 38.8</td>
    <td>7M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>52.4</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_tiny_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_tiny_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_tiny_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-S-Mask/16</td>
    <td>45.3 / 46.9</td>
    <td>27M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>34.8</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_small_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_small_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_small_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-B-Mask/16</td>
    <td>48.5 / 50.0</td>
    <td>106M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>24.1</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-B/8</td>
    <td>49.5 / 50.5</td>
    <td>89M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>4.2</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_patch8/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_patch8/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_patch8/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-L-Mask/16</td>
    <td>51.8 / 53.6</td>
    <td>334M</td>
    <td>640x640</td>
    <td>-</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_large_mask_640/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_large_mask_640/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_large_mask_640/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

Segmenter models with DeiT backbone:
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>mIoU (SS/MS)</th>
    <th># params</th>
    <th>Resolution</th>
    <th>FPS</th>
    <th colspan="3">Download</th>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-B<span>&#8224;</span>/16</td>
    <td>47.1 / 48.1</td>
    <td>87M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>27.3</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_linear/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_linear/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_linear/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-B<span>&#8224;</span>-Mask/16</td>
    <td>48.7 / 50.1</td>
    <td>106M</td>
    <td>512x512</td>
    <td>24.1</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/ade20k/seg_base_deit_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>

  </tr>
</table>

### Pascal Context
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>mIoU (SS/MS)</th>
    <th># params</th>
    <th>Resolution</th>
    <th>FPS</th>
    <th colspan="3">Download</th>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-L-Mask/16</td>
    <td>58.1 / 59.0</td>
    <td>334M</td>
    <td>480x480</td>
    <td>-</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/pascal_context/seg_large_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/pascal_context/seg_large_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/pascal_context/seg_large_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Cityscapes
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>mIoU (SS/MS)</th>
    <th># params</th>
    <th>Resolution</th>
    <th>FPS</th>
    <th colspan="3">Download</th>
  </tr>
<tr>
    <td>Seg-L-Mask/16</td>
    <td>79.1 / 81.3</td>
    <td>322M</td>
    <td>768x768</td>
    <td>-</td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/cityscapes/seg_large_mask/checkpoint.pth">model</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/cityscapes/seg_large_mask/variant.yml">config</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/cluster-willow/rstrudel/segmenter/checkpoints/cityscapes/seg_large_mask/log.txt">log</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Train and test

Train `Seg-T-Mask/16` on ADE20K on a single GPU:
```python
python train.py --dataset ade20k --backbone vit_tiny_patch16_384 --decoder mask_transformer --wandb

python train.py --dataset streethazards --backbone vit_tiny_patch16_384 --decoder mask_transformer --wandb
```

Test `Seg-T-Mask/16` on StreetHazards on a single GPU:
```python
python test.py --dataset ade20k --model_path <log_folder> --singlescale --save-image

python test.py --dataset streethazards --model_path <log_folder> --singlescale --save-image

### --save-image is optional if you want to visualize test image, groundtruth, and prediction 
### --model_path only require the leaf folder name on logs dir.
### Example:
python.test.py --dataset streethazards --model_path streethazards_20030329@190011 --singlescale --save-images
```

Or you can just conduct all training/testing phases under 1 command script:

```python

python main.py --dataset streethazards --backbone vit_tiny_patch16_384 --decoder mask_transformer --singlescale --save-images --wandb
```

`train.py` or `main.py` automatically generate log folder on `logs/` based on executed time to store checkpoint model, best weight model, training/testing params logs, test performance, and test image prediction with the format: `<dataset_date@time>`
## Logs
Simply install WandB `pip install wandb`, login into your WandB account, and turn the flag: `--wandb` in `train.py`


## BibTex

```
@article{strudel2021,
  title={Segmenter: Transformer for Semantic Segmentation},
  author={Strudel, Robin and Garcia, Ricardo and Laptev, Ivan and Schmid, Cordelia},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.05633},
  year={2021}
}
```


## Acknowledgements

The Vision Transformer code is based on [timm](https://github.com/rwightman/pytorch-image-models) library and the semantic segmentation training and evaluation pipeline 
is using [mmsegmentation](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation).

Code modified by [quanghuy0497](https://github.com/quanghuy0497)
